# NBA Shooting Analytics

Sports analytics project exploring the various capabilities of popular Python libraries such as Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, and Seaborn. In the end, I use advanced shooting metrics to analyze the shooting tendencies and similarities of NBA players in the 2019-20 regular season and apply some basic unsupervised learning algorithms to find the most similar players.

This project begins with some basic implementations of common techniques in Numpy, Pandas, etc. for practice using NBA statistics I scraped from basketballreference.com. We then take an in-depth look at shooting statistics of players in the NBA. The league has increasingly revolved around the 3-point shot in recent years and the 2020 season was no different. I attempt to dissect just how widespread the 3-pointer was in 2020, and how this rapid growth of the long-ball, along with other  trends on offense, point towards the steady evolution towards "positionless basketball". We will specifically look at differences in shooting percentages and splits across positions, and hopefully come to the conclusion that the distinction of different positions in the NBA is beginning to lose relevance. That is, the traditional positions (PG, SG, etc.) no longer serve to capture differences in playing style, shot selection court positioning as I think they should. O create a variety of aesthetic plots to illustrate this point, along with other relevant statistical trends and anomalies from the season.

Then, in an effort to group players based on these differences, I apply the k-Means clustering algorithm and create a new position system for all of the players. Players with the same position that I assign to them will exhibit the same or similar shooting statistics and other offensive metrics. In addition, I use a k Nearest Neighbors clustering to find, for any given player, other players with the most similar style of play according to designated stat categories. This clustering can potentially serve to point towards hypothetical replacements for players who perhaps depart from a team (a very real and relevant issue in the age of player movement and freedom). Alternatively, one could look at the outputted similar players as a basis for the input player's adaptation/improvement of his game.
